mmm the skids it doesn't have to be
breakfast for a delicious biscuits
doesn't day but it's not does not all
right where's standard TV and appliance
and Beaverton in their beautiful Test
Kitchen and David is going to show us
what to do with sourdough starter that's
right Rob most people just think about
bread when they think about sourdough
starter or sourdough in general but they
started makes great biscuits to give
them a little bit of Tang and it really
lightens them up so they're really a
light biscuit and you're making kind of
a savory biscuit yeah and this one i am
i mean i'm adding chives you could add
other things you could add bacon you got
any herb that you want whatever tastes
good for you and if you don't have a
friend who's a chef and shares a
sourdough starter with you then we go to
our website and we'll tell you how you
can get your own that's right and it's
really simple okay so really it's just
like making any other biscuit just that
we're gonna be replacing some of the
liquid with the sourdough starter but
we're gonna use baking powder and we're
gonna use baking soda and both of those
are gonna give a little bit of leavening
we're gonna add a little bit of salt and
you can't skip either one of those you
really can't otherwise you're gonna wind
up with crackers more than a biscuit so
you just want to make sure that you
really whisk that in really good so you
get it mixed evenly and then after that
we're gonna go ahead and start adding
the fat in this case I'm using
shortening but you could actually use
butter if you prefer butter you could
use lard some people may not like that
but it actually can be pretty good you
could even try bacon fat if you're using
butter would it have to be cold you want
to use cold butter anything you use
because that's the the main thing is you
don't really want it to get creamy like
you do for a cookie or another type of
batter okay so basically just going to
continue to incorporate this until you
get smaller than pea-sized pieces you go
alright okay so it only takes a few
minutes actually just a couple of
minutes to get it where you want it
right it's really quick and you don't
want it you don't want to over work at
otherwise you won't have nice tender
biscuits so you do have a little bit of
the Crisco still in there I do I mean so
it's pieces yes mam right okay right so
then the next thing is
anything that you're going to be adding
is going to be your extra add and
brother peach Ives
you know green onion maybe a little bit
of rosemary and you said you could even
put bits of bacon
you could you could and that would go
really good with some some bacon gravy
so then we're gonna add two cups of the
starter and when we add in our liquids
we want to be careful that we really do
it really gently again you do not want
to overwork this dough if you do again
you won't get the nice tender biscuits
that you're looking for so and this is
about a half a cup of milk and I'm just
gonna add about half of it to start with
because I don't know if I'm gonna need
at all okay and then you just gently I
do it more lifting you just lift it from
the outside into the center and all
you're looking for this is for the
batter to come or the dough to come
together you do not want it to be
totally mixed so it's gonna be you know
not wet not overly dry because you're
gonna have to fold it out a little bit
I think the key words are what you just
said it's a dough not about it right
alright so anyway this might just use a
little bit more milk and then once I got
incorporated we'll roll it out so you
can see that it started to come together
now and it's basically ready to be
rolled and again the same thing on
rolling you don't want to do too much
because again if you try and do too much
you're going to make it tough so we're
just going to take it out and I wear my
white coat today so when I get the flour
on it's not gonna I'm not gonna make a
mess you don't want tough biscuits don't
want tough biscuits so you're just gonna
knead it about three or four times just
about that that's about it so that's
good to me a bit more flour and then
we're gonna roll this up just gonna roll
it out to about a half an inch and then
you're going to cut it with a two and a
half inch cookie cutter or you could
actually make squares if you like and I
probably make them about to be round so
really that's about it okay so now we're
pretty much ready yeah yeah we did
pretty good it's a cheap so one of the
keys is that when you use a cookie
cutter you want to try and flour and you
just want to go straight down
if you don't just go straight down what
happens is you wind up pinching the
edges and then they won't rise and I'm I
didn't realize I've been guilty of that
more than once there is science baking
is definitely much more of a science
than the savory side of food so anyway
we're just gonna get these all on a pan
they're going to go in a 425 oven for
about 12 to 15 minutes and we'll put a
little butter on top of them when they
come out Oh as usual you make it look
very easy but I think this is one
anybody can do I think so too and I
think by adding something like chives or
some other herb you actually elevate it
and you make it a much more interesting
food absolutely and homemade is always
best anything bread I think and you can
reroll the dough maybe one more time but
if you have to re-roll up more than that
you're going to make it really tough so
do your best that is another reason why
squares can be a little bit better
because you don't wind up with these hod
gotcha
pod pieces okay so anyway we'll get
these done and we'll get it in the oven
and then we can eat them I smell
biscuits bacon yeah it's been just about
15 minutes and I turned them half way
just kind of give some even cooking
so yeah they smell pretty good if you
like you can put a little bit of butter
on top of them or you can do an egg wash
or something before they go in but this
makes them pretty tasty yeah and now I
see what you mean about like this one
didn't raise this one and that's because
you pushed it just to show us just to
show us what would happen if you didn't
do it the right way so these are pretty
much ready to go if you're not going to
eat them right away I would put them on
a rack after a couple minutes to let
them cool otherwise just grab a plate
call everybody to the table I don't know
what you like with your biscuits I kind
of like bacon and eggs there I don't
know these smells so good I think that's
about all you need
wonderful they're gonna be hot but dig
in dig on all right thank you David and
of course the recipe will be on our
website fusion NW calm